All right welcome back my students.
So when the last lecture I was going to explain to you and I just wanted to do it in a separate lecture
I wanted to explain that when you close the browser.
All right.
And you are logged in.
Let's say for example we just come here we log in.
Now we have the session right in place and we close everything.
Are you going to close all my browser windows.
I'm going to close internet there.
If I open this again right and I try going to localhost something here.
You can see that
I mean that to be we're not logged in it were redirected back to index that BHB.
All right.
And the reason is is because we are saving or logging information in a session and accessing is only
available for a session of time.
Right.
Only for until the browser is active once you close your windows in your browser you will lose that
session because the session is managed in the service Saj right.
Any has a cookie as an identifier.
I'm going to show you that cookie later on.
But it's called session id and that's the cookie that's identifier for that session in the server.
So once you close your windows that session is gone.
All right.
So while we need to do is we need to set up a system where our browsers can remember us even if we close
our windows are our application can remember us no matter what.
So we can do that by setting cookie expiration dates.
All right so setting cookies is a little bit different than sessions because cookies is managed in the
browser.
Right.
So the browser is going to remember that cookie all the time the session is is killed.
Once you click you close your browser window.
So that's it.
All right.
But cookies we can let it be there for a year or two years as many years as we want.
I'm going to show you how to do that.
All right.
So we're going to do it by when we click on this little button right here.
We're going to say OK we're going to send that request.
We're going to send that variable.
I was going to call.
It's going to be called Remember Me and we're going to catch it in logon.
And you know when we said it we're going to set a cookie.
But when we don't when we don't send it like this we're not going to set that cookie.
All right so we need to you know create a functionality.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let me show you how to do it.
Let's go to our functions of BHP and all the way down here where we have our login information low and
function right here.
All right.
So we can do this
once we find that we have somebody like that and we passed the password then we can set that right.
All right.
So all right let me show you first of all we need to pass a parameter.
Remember from the function.
So we need to go to our logon that BHB and let me show you right now.
We have a remember checkbox.
All right that's a checkbox.
And he's taking this.
Remember variable to the postal pro-global right.
So we need to catch that.
So let's catch it.
All right.
You know validation as well.
So we need to say remember now if we are trying to use this remember here without actually checking
for it first.
All right.
So when we try to log in if we try to logon like this and we are pulling the value here is going to
give us like an identify in that remember.
And that's a problem.
So what we need to do is we need to put the reset function there to check it.
Right.
So we can do something like this clean we can clean everything and then we can just say set.
All right.
And we will check for the post.
But remember.
All right.
So we can do that.
And now we can take this to our blogging right here.
There.
All right.
And now here we can do some work right.
So now that we find out who's the right you this is the right user we're able to verify that pass was
correct.
We can do a couple of more things here.
If that remember is equal to on and that's what is going to equal to if it's checked and if it's not
checked it's going to be equal to off.
All right that's the way set up.
So if it's equal to on or checked right then we're going to set a cookie.
So we're going to use the function set cookie I'm going to show you how this works.
We put the name of the cookie first and we can name the mail if we want to weaken him or whatever we
want.
Then we put the value and we can put whatever value we want but I'm just going to put the value is going
to be email right.
And the third parameter is going to be the time.
Right.
So this is how it works.
And we're going to be using the time function is going to give me all the time from 1970 I believe to
now in milliseconds.
That's how it works.
But if you add something to it I'm going to add 60.
This means now that this cookie will expire in 60 seconds which means one minute.
All right.
So once we have this in place right now we have this now we have to go to our logging functionality
and also Aubade that they are because if we don't update that in our logging functionality we have a
problem right.
Well we're not going to be able to stay logged into the system.
I'll show you right now.
Let's go to a log in functionality and right here where we need to do is we need to check if it's set
the session email if he set or it's set that cookie.
And this is you check that cookie.
I really like this cookie.
And then we write the name of the cookie which is e-mail.
All right.
So now you're checking for either or right for any of those for a session or cookie.
And we're going to we're going to set that cookie anyway right.
It's going to be returned true.
But remember when that cookie expire this condition is not going to be valid.
So it's only going to be checking for session right when inspirer is going to find this one and it's
going to return true for session only.
So when we close the browser is going to redirect.
If if they could get buyers because it could get buyers no longer exists is on set.
Right.
So that's perfect.
So in the next lecture I'll show you how how to check for the cookies for the sessions and how to know
when to when they expire or knife.
If it was said or not.
Anyway thank you so much for watching this lecture and we will continue this on the next one.
Hope you're having a lot of fun and learning a lot of cool stuff.
Take care.